---
title: "June 6, 2024"
date: 2024-06-06
lastmod: 2024-06-06
tags:
    - writing-process
---

I wonder if creating a new daily seed note every day is the best way to do the writing and thinking that I want. It is nice to have a blank page to jot down whatever is on my mind, but I've found the last couple of days that most of my thinking / writing might have been better in dedicated notes. I am glad I am experimenting with this though because I'm learning what is and is not working about this whole writing process.

I think that part of my resistance was that my daily seeds in the past couple of days were pretty **short** because I put more time and words into dedicated notes. I was using length of these notes as a sort of evaluation criteria for the quality of my thinking, and I don't think that's necessarily the case.

If I think about experimenting with the other extreme and only writing in dedicated notes (I guess "dedicated notes" is the term I using for notes that I title with intention with the plan of ensuring that there are rich links), then I wonder about the form of "musings" on that note. I guess by "musings" I mean details that I like to include—perhaps like personal details, emotions, my feelings surrounding an idea—that I would not necessarily publish on a Substack essay or are unknown in their potential to truly contribute to the note or just be a "weed". These daily seed pages are nice places to house these musings. But then again, I could just put them in dedicated notes themselves with the expectation that I'll just prune those notes to their essential core when I revisit them.

Maybe I can just start adding tags to these notes. Exploring tags as a way of rediscovering ideas and collections of related ideas seems like a useful experiment.
