---
title: "July 2, 2024"
date: 2024-07-02
lastmod: 2024-07-02
tags:
    - writing-process
---

Today I read [Why You Should Write a Book, Now](https://newsletter.pathlesspath.com/p/why-you-should-write-a-book-now-270) by Paul Millerd.

His quote from Nat Eliason sums his point up perfectly:

> I’ll occasionally talk to a friend with a blog or newsletter who wants to write a book someday, and they’ll say: 
> 
> _"I just don’t feel ready yet."_ 
> 
> It always makes me a little sad to hear that, because the truth is you’re never “ready” to write a book. 
> 
> In fact, there is no magical day when you’re “ready” for anything. You’re never “ready” to get married, to quit your job, to have kids, to get your health in order. 
> 
> You either put it off until the last minute and stumble into it out of a sudden fear of your mortality, or you wake up one day and say “screw it let’s do it.” 
> 
> Illusions of needing to “Be Ready” are just fear and procrastination in disguise. Writing a book is a long, hard journey, with an uncertain payoff, and it’s totally reasonable to be scared to start work on it. 
> 
> But once you realize the desire to “be ready” is just fear, you’re one short step from the truth: **You get ready to write a book by writing a book.**

It's interesting to compare this to the thoughts in [No one buys books](https://www.elysian.press/p/no-one-buys-books) by Elle Griffin, which I read on [[writing/daily/2024-05-24|2024-05-24]].

I *am* interested in writing a book. My editor, Chris Coffman, in Write of Passage Cohort 12 told me that my Core Idea essay (https://lesliemyint.substack.com/p/dont-ask-for-permission) had the makings of a memoir or a TED talk. It was praise that really surprised me, moved me, made me dream. But what specifically my book would be about, I don't know. All of the writing that I've done so far—all the living I've done so far—I'm pretty sure that's what I want to be part of that book because I feel like all those experiences are connected to an even bigger thing that could unite the book. Maybe its my #1 [[writing/12 favorite problems|favorite problem]] right now: How do we save the world? How do we figure out what that even means?

As Elle Griffin wrote about in [Who's qualified to save the world?](https://www.elysian.press/p/who-is-qualified-to-save-the-world) (which I read yesterday), *everyone* has a part to play in saving the world.

Maybe me writing this book would push me to embrace the lifestyle that I'd feel proudest of—one that integrates all of who I am and what I want. I wrote about in a daily seed a while ago that I thought about the tensions between n = 1 and n -> infinity in my loves of data and statistics but also personal storytelling. I'd love a lifestyle in which I can chase down a story through data, and through deeply thinking about its context, as I teach my students to do, discover the world of the residual, the world of the error term, where the unexplainable becomes explainable as we connect with the n=1.
