---
title: "June 19, 2024"
date: 2024-06-19
lastmod: 2024-06-19
tags:
    - teaching-learning
---

Today I read [Laziness Does Not Exist](https://open.substack.com/pub/drdevonprice/p/laziness-does-not-exist) by Devon Price, on recommendation from the chat at the Grading Conference.

His fundamental premise is that what is often perceived as laziness is a barrier or unmet need.

> There are always barriers. Recognizing those barriers— and viewing them as legitimate — is often the first step to breaking "lazy" behavior patterns.

He spends time at the beginning of his piece discussing what he learned about the struggles of being homeless:

> Kim is the person who taught me that judging a homeless person for wanting to buy alcohol or cigarettes is utter folly. When you're homeless, the nights are cold, the world is unfriendly, and everything is painfully uncomfortable.

This resonates:

> And when you don’t fully understand a person's context — what it feels like to be them every day, all the small annoyances and major traumas that define their life — it’s easy to impose abstract, rigid expectations on a person’s behavior.

> But they’re already doing the best they can.

*What if we assume that everyone is doing their best?* <- I think this was an essay that I came across in the past year. I didn't read the full essay if it was indeed an essay. Or maybe it was a tweet. In any case, I find it a beautiful question.

Devon talks about procrastination in particular as being viewed as laziness:

> When a person fails to begin a project ==that they care about==, it’s typically due to either a) [anxiety about their attempts not being “good enough”](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/j.1556-6676.1998.tb02548.x) or b) [confusion about what the first steps of the task are](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Kate_Eskine/publication/49641657_Academic_procrastination_in_college_students_The_role_of_self-reported_executive_function/links/5413057e0cf2bb7347db1857.pdf). Not laziness. In fact, procrastination is more likely [when the task is meaningful and the individual cares about doing it well.](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/j.2161-0045.2014.00076.x)

I agree with what he says above, but I have questions about when a person fails to begin a project that **DON'T** care about. My first instinct is to wonder about procrastination as laziness then, but what if I reframe as an unmet need of *meaning*? Framing it that way...way more compassion and a desire to make what we do meaningful. That desire manifests in something that Devon says later:

> Needing or benefiting from such things doesn’t make a person lazy. It just means they have needs. The more we embrace that, the more we can help people thrive.

The deep reasons why teachers complain about students:

> A lot of my colleagues would look at this student and think she was lazy, disorganized, or apathetic. I know this because I;ve _heard_ how they talk about under-performing students. There's often rage and resentment in their words and tone — ==_why won’t this student take my class seriously? Why won't they make me feel important, interesting, smart?_==



