---
title: "July 29, 2024"
date: 2024-07-29
lastmod: 2024-07-29
tags:
    - writing-process
---

It's been a while since I've written a dedicated daily seed. I've just been adding to permanent notes lately. I've gone back and forth between having this daily seed vs. working on permanent notes. I know it's not an either/or. I can do both. I was thinking this weekend about consistently doing both. What I liked about these daily notes was the chance to let words flow out and get ideas down rather than polishing them to some extent when working on permanent notes. I also liked happening upon articles that were fascinating. But it wasn't a guarantee that the articles that I chose to read for the day would really be interesting. It is nice to have the chance to explore even if the articles fall short, but when this happens day after day *and* when I have to hunt for articles to find (often by perusing the newsletter subscriptions that fill my inbox), I feel a bit dissatisfied or energy-drained. Just looking at what's in my inbox feels like a default or lazy way to find interesting ideas. Sure, they're from people I subscribe to, but they don't always fill me with the energy of a good new idea or perspective. Maybe I'm asking for too much.

I feel some resistance to putting ideas from books I'm reading in these daily notes because it feels like I should be putting those ideas into permanent notes. I definitely wrote a few daily notes about the ideas in *Good Inside* because they were really present for me those days.

I guess my ongoing wonder is "What do I write in these daily notes? What are they for? What purpose do they serve for me?"
